now in the twelfth month that is the
now in the twelfth month that is the month of ADA on the thirteenth day the
month of ADA on the thirteenth day the
month of ADA on the thirteenth day the time came for the king's command and his
time came for the king's command and his
time came for the king's command and his decree to be executed on the day that
decree to be executed on the day that
decree to be executed on the day that the enemies of the Jews had hoped to
the enemies of the Jews had hoped to
the enemies of the Jews had hoped to overpower them the opposite occurred in
overpower them the opposite occurred in
overpower them the opposite occurred in that the Jews themselves overpowered
that the Jews themselves overpowered
that the Jews themselves overpowered those who hated them the Jews gathered
those who hated them the Jews gathered
those who hated them the Jews gathered together in their cities throughout all
together in their cities throughout all
together in their cities throughout all the provinces of King Ahasuerus to lay
the provinces of King Ahasuerus to lay
the provinces of King Ahasuerus to lay hands on those who sought their harm and
hands on those who sought their harm and
hands on those who sought their harm and no one could withstand
no one could withstand
no one could withstand because fear of them fell upon all
because fear of them fell upon all
because fear of them fell upon all people and all officials of the
people and all officials of the
people and all officials of the provinces
provinces
provinces thus a traps the governors and all those
thus a traps the governors and all those
thus a traps the governors and all those doing the King's work helped the Jews
doing the King's work helped the Jews
doing the King's work helped the Jews because the fear of Mordecai fell upon
because the fear of Mordecai fell upon
because the fear of Mordecai fell upon them for Mordecai was great in the
them for Mordecai was great in the
them for Mordecai was great in the king's palace and his fame spread
king's palace and his fame spread
king's palace and his fame spread throughout all the provinces for this
throughout all the provinces for this
throughout all the provinces for this man Mordecai became increasingly
man Mordecai became increasingly
man Mordecai became increasingly prominent thus the Jews defeated all
prominent thus the Jews defeated all
prominent thus the Jews defeated all their enemies with a stroke of the sword
their enemies with a stroke of the sword
their enemies with a stroke of the sword with slaughter and destruction and did
with slaughter and destruction and did
with slaughter and destruction and did what they pleased with those who hated
what they pleased with those who hated
what they pleased with those who hated them and in Shushan The Citadel the Jews
them and in Shushan The Citadel the Jews
them and in Shushan The Citadel the Jews killed and destroyed five hundred men
killed and destroyed five hundred men
killed and destroyed five hundred men also in passion death ax dolphin as
also in passion death ax dolphin as
also in passion death ax dolphin as petha Bharatha Adalia arid atha par
petha Bharatha Adalia arid atha par
petha Bharatha Adalia arid atha par master or Isaiah
master or Isaiah
master or Isaiah today I and verges over the 10 sons of
today I and verges over the 10 sons of
today I and verges over the 10 sons of him the son of Hamad atha the enemy of
him the son of Hamad atha the enemy of
him the son of Hamad atha the enemy of the Jews they killed but they did not
the Jews they killed but they did not
the Jews they killed but they did not lay a hand on the plunder on that day
lay a hand on the plunder on that day
lay a hand on the plunder on that day the number of those who were killed in
the number of those who were killed in
the number of those who were killed in Shushan the citadel was brought to the
Shushan the citadel was brought to the
Shushan the citadel was brought to the king and the King said to Queen Esther
king and the King said to Queen Esther
king and the King said to Queen Esther the Jews have killed and destroyed five
the Jews have killed and destroyed five
the Jews have killed and destroyed five hundred men in Shushan the citadel and
hundred men in Shushan the citadel and
hundred men in Shushan the citadel and the ten sons of Haman what have they
the ten sons of Haman what have they
the ten sons of Haman what have they done in the rest of the king's provinces
done in the rest of the king's provinces
done in the rest of the king's provinces now what is your petition it shall be
now what is your petition it shall be
now what is your petition it shall be granted you or what is your further
granted you or what is your further
granted you or what is your further request it shall be done
if it pleases the king let it be granted
if it pleases the king let it be granted to the Jews who are in Shushan to do
to the Jews who are in Shushan to do
to the Jews who are in Shushan to do again tomorrow according to today's
again tomorrow according to today's
again tomorrow according to today's decree and let Haman's 10 sons be hanged
decree and let Haman's 10 sons be hanged
decree and let Haman's 10 sons be hanged on the gallows so the king commanded
on the gallows so the king commanded
on the gallows so the king commanded this to be done the decree was issued in
this to be done the decree was issued in
this to be done the decree was issued in Shushan and they hanged
Shushan and they hanged
Shushan and they hanged Heyman's 10 sons and the Jews who were
Heyman's 10 sons and the Jews who were
Heyman's 10 sons and the Jews who were in Shushan gathered together again on
in Shushan gathered together again on
in Shushan gathered together again on the fourteenth day of the month of ADA
the fourteenth day of the month of ADA
the fourteenth day of the month of ADA and killed three hundred men at Shushan
and killed three hundred men at Shushan
and killed three hundred men at Shushan but they did not lay a hand on the
but they did not lay a hand on the
but they did not lay a hand on the plunder the remainder of the Jews in the
plunder the remainder of the Jews in the
plunder the remainder of the Jews in the king's provinces glad that together and
king's provinces glad that together and
king's provinces glad that together and protected their lives had rest from
protected their lives had rest from
protected their lives had rest from their enemies and killed seventy five
their enemies and killed seventy five
their enemies and killed seventy five thousand of their enemies but they did
thousand of their enemies but they did
thousand of their enemies but they did not lay a hand on the plunder this was
not lay a hand on the plunder this was
not lay a hand on the plunder this was on the 13th day of the month of ADA and
on the 13th day of the month of ADA and
on the 13th day of the month of ADA and on the fourteenth of the month they
on the fourteenth of the month they
on the fourteenth of the month they rested and made it a day of feasting and
rested and made it a day of feasting and
rested and made it a day of feasting and gladness
but the Jews who are in Shushan
but the Jews who are in Shushan assembled together on the 13th day as
assembled together on the 13th day as
assembled together on the 13th day as well as on the 14th and on the 15th of a
well as on the 14th and on the 15th of a
well as on the 14th and on the 15th of a month
month
month they rested and made it a day of
they rested and made it a day of
they rested and made it a day of feasting and gladness therefore the Jews
feasting and gladness therefore the Jews
feasting and gladness therefore the Jews of the villages who dwelt in the
of the villages who dwelt in the
of the villages who dwelt in the unwalled towns celebrated the 14th day
unwalled towns celebrated the 14th day
unwalled towns celebrated the 14th day of the month of ADA with gladness and
of the month of ADA with gladness and
of the month of ADA with gladness and feasting as a holiday and for sending
feasting as a holiday and for sending
feasting as a holiday and for sending presents to one another and Mordecai
presents to one another and Mordecai
presents to one another and Mordecai wrote these things and sent letters to
wrote these things and sent letters to
wrote these things and sent letters to all the Jews near and far who were in
all the Jews near and far who were in
all the Jews near and far who were in all the provinces of King Ahasuerus
all the provinces of King Ahasuerus
all the provinces of King Ahasuerus to establish among them that they should
to establish among them that they should
to establish among them that they should celebrate yearly the fourteenth and
celebrate yearly the fourteenth and
celebrate yearly the fourteenth and fifteenth days of the month of ADA as
fifteenth days of the month of ADA as
fifteenth days of the month of ADA as the days on which the Jews had rest from
the days on which the Jews had rest from
the days on which the Jews had rest from their enemies as the month which was
their enemies as the month which was
their enemies as the month which was turned from sorrow to joy for them and
turned from sorrow to joy for them and
turned from sorrow to joy for them and from morning to a holiday that they
from morning to a holiday that they
from morning to a holiday that they should make them days of feasting and
should make them days of feasting and
should make them days of feasting and joy of sending presents to one another
joy of sending presents to one another
joy of sending presents to one another and gifts to the poor so the Jews
and gifts to the poor so the Jews
and gifts to the poor so the Jews accepted the custom which they had begun
accepted the custom which they had begun
accepted the custom which they had begun as Mordecai had written to them because
as Mordecai had written to them because
as Mordecai had written to them because Haman the son of Hamor dasa the eager
Haman the son of Hamor dasa the eager
Haman the son of Hamor dasa the eager guide the enemy of all the Jews had
guide the enemy of all the Jews had
guide the enemy of all the Jews had plotted against the Jews to annihilate
plotted against the Jews to annihilate
plotted against the Jews to annihilate them and had cast per that is the lot to
them and had cast per that is the lot to
them and had cast per that is the lot to consume and destroy them but when Esther
consume and destroy them but when Esther
consume and destroy them but when Esther came before the king he commanded by
came before the king he commanded by
came before the king he commanded by letter that this wicked plot which Haman
letter that this wicked plot which Haman
letter that this wicked plot which Haman had devised against the Jews should
had devised against the Jews should
had devised against the Jews should return on his own head and that he and
return on his own head and that he and
return on his own head and that he and his son should be hanged on the gallows
his son should be hanged on the gallows
his son should be hanged on the gallows so they called these days Purim after
so they called these days Purim after
so they called these days Purim after the name /
the name /
the name / therefore because of all the words of
therefore because of all the words of
therefore because of all the words of this letter what they had seen
this letter what they had seen
this letter what they had seen concerning this matter and what had
concerning this matter and what had
concerning this matter and what had happened to them the Jews established
happened to them the Jews established
happened to them the Jews established and imposed it upon themselves on their
and imposed it upon themselves on their
and imposed it upon themselves on their descendants and all who would join them
descendants and all who would join them
descendants and all who would join them that without fail they should celebrate
that without fail they should celebrate
that without fail they should celebrate these two days every year according to
these two days every year according to
these two days every year according to the written instructions and according
the written instructions and according
the written instructions and according to the prescribed time that these days
to the prescribed time that these days
to the prescribed time that these days should be remembered and kept throughout
should be remembered and kept throughout
should be remembered and kept throughout every generation every family every
every generation every family every
every generation every family every province and every city that these days
province and every city that these days
province and every city that these days of Purim should not fail to be observed
of Purim should not fail to be observed
of Purim should not fail to be observed among the Jews and that the memory of
among the Jews and that the memory of
among the Jews and that the memory of them should not perish among their
them should not perish among their
them should not perish among their descendants when Queen Esther the
descendants when Queen Esther the
descendants when Queen Esther the daughter of Abba hail with Mordecai the
daughter of Abba hail with Mordecai the
daughter of Abba hail with Mordecai the Jew wrote with full authority to confirm
Jew wrote with full authority to confirm
Jew wrote with full authority to confirm this second letter about Purim and
this second letter about Purim and
this second letter about Purim and Mordecai sent letters to all the Jews to
Mordecai sent letters to all the Jews to
Mordecai sent letters to all the Jews to the 127 provinces of the kingdom of
the 127 provinces of the kingdom of
the 127 provinces of the kingdom of Ahasuerus with words of peace and truth
Ahasuerus with words of peace and truth
Ahasuerus with words of peace and truth to confirm these days of Purim at their
to confirm these days of Purim at their
to confirm these days of Purim at their appointed time as Mordecai the Jew and
appointed time as Mordecai the Jew and
appointed time as Mordecai the Jew and Queen Esther had prescribed for them and
Queen Esther had prescribed for them and
Queen Esther had prescribed for them and as they had decreed for themselves and
as they had decreed for themselves and
as they had decreed for themselves and their descendants concerning matters of
their descendants concerning matters of
their descendants concerning matters of their fasting and lamenting so the
their fasting and lamenting so the
their fasting and lamenting so the decree of Esther confirmed these matters
decree of Esther confirmed these matters
decree of Esther confirmed these matters of Purim and it was written in the book
of Purim and it was written in the book
of Purim and it was written in the book [Music]